TEP of adding pipelinerun.spec.taskrunspectemplate (#783)
tektoncd/community: teps/0119-add-taskrun-template-in-pipelinerun.md

---

> status: proposed

Reviewer: this can be "implementable"

title: Add taskRun template in PipelineRun
creation-date: '2022-08-12'
last-updated: '2022-08-12'
authors:
- '@yuzp1996'
---

# TEP-0119: Add taskRun template in PipelineRun

<!-- toc -->
- [Summary](#summary)
  - [Use Cases](#use-cases)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
- [Design Details](#design-details)
  - [taskRunTemplate](#implement)
  - [Test Plan](#test-plan)
<!-- /toc -->

## Summary
It is now supported for users to specify spec for a specific taskRun when creating a pipelineRun, but it is not supported for users to set spec for all taskRun.

If you want to specify common configurations for all taskRun, you must specify them individually.

This Tep attempts to provide a convenient way to specify the run specification of all tasks in pipelineRun.

### Use Cases
Pipeline and Task User:

I would like to use the same service account for all of my pipeline tasks except one.

I want to specify compute resources that each TaskRun in my PipelineRun should run with, and don't want to have to specify them individually for each TaskRun.

## Proposal

> Add filed taskRunTemplate to PipelineRun.Spec then users can specify common configuration in taskRunTemplate and the configuration will apply to all the TaskRun. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add field taskRunTemplate to PipelineRun.Spec so that users can specify common configuration in taskRunTemplate that will apply to all the TaskRuns. 
```

kind: PipelineRun
metadata:
  generateName: clone-test-build-
spec:
  pipelineRef:
    name: clone-test-build
  taskRunSpecs:
    - pipelineTaskName: clone
      taskServiceAccountName: git
  taskRunSpecTemplate:
    taskServiceAccountName: build

```

Not only serviceAccount, but also data like computeResources metadata that you can specify for all tasks instead of specify them individually.

## Design Details
### taskRunTemplate
Add taskRunSpecTemplate to PipelineRun.Spec so that user can specify configuration.
```go
// Add struct PipelineTaskRunTemplate
type PipelineTaskRunTemplate struct {
  TaskServiceAccountName string       `json:"taskServiceAccountName,omitempty"`
  TaskPodTemplate        *PodTemplate `json:"taskPodTemplate,omitempty"`
  // +listType=atomic
  StepOverrides []TaskRunStepOverride `json:"stepOverrides,omitempty"`
  // +listType=atomic
  SidecarOverrides []TaskRunSidecarOverride `json:"sidecarOverrides,omitempty"`
     
  // +optional
  Metadata *PipelineTaskMetadata `json:"metadata,omitempty"`
     
  // Compute resources to use for this TaskRun
  ComputeResources *corev1.ResourceRequirements `json:"computeResources,omitempty"`
}

> // Reference PipelineTaskRunTemplate in PipelineRunSpec as filed TaskRunSpecTemplate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Reference PipelineTaskRunTemplate in PipelineRunSpec via the field TaskRunSpecTemplate
```

type PipelineRunSpec struct {
	// +optional
	PipelineRef *PipelineRef `json:"pipelineRef,omitempty"`
	// +optional
	PipelineSpec *PipelineSpec `json:"pipelineSpec,omitempty"`
    .....
    // TaskRunTemplate represent template of taskrun
+	// +optional
+	TaskRunTemplate PipelineTaskRunTemplate `json:"taskRunTemplate,omitempty"`
}

```

Then, if you want to set a common configuration for all taskRun in pipelineRun, you can do so.
```yaml
apiVersion: tekton.dev/v1beta1
kind: PipelineRun
metadata:
  generateName: clone-test-build-
spec:
  pipelineRef:
    name: clone-test-build
  taskRunSpecs:
    - pipelineTaskName: clone
      taskServiceAccountName: git
  taskRunTemplate:
    taskServiceAccountName: build
    metadata:
      annotations:
        vault.hashicorp.com/agent-inject-secret-foo: "/path/to/foo"
        vault.hashicorp.com/role: role-name
    taskPodTemplate:
      nodeSelector:
        disktype: ssd
    computeResources:
      requests:
        cpu: 2

>     stepOverrides:

Reviewer: would you mind removing `stepOverrides` from this example, as it can't be used along with `computeResources`?

Author: Thanks for your review @lbernick! 

I don't know why stepOverrides can not be used along with computeResources. Could you please help tell me the reason?  Thanks!  If so does this mean sidecarOverrides can only not be used along with computeResources either?

Reviewer: It's explained in [TEP-0104](https://github.com/tektoncd/community/blob/main/teps/0104-tasklevel-resource-requirements.md); basically it's two different ways of configuring compute resources that aren't really compatible with each other. We are probably going to deprecate stepOverrides (see https://github.com/tektoncd/community/pull/786)
